Football
Football is the most popular sport in Jordan. The national football team reached 37th in September 2004 according to the FIFA Rankings. The Jordan League attracts reasonable crowds. Under the Jordan League is the Second Division Jordan League. However the bottom two teams in the first division get relegated at the end of the season, whilst the top two teams in the second division are promoted.[citation needed]

Basketball
Jordan's national basketball team is now being sponsored by Zain and participating in various Arab and Middle East basketball competitions. Local teams include: Al-Orthodoxi Club, Al-Riyadi, Zain, Al-Hussein and Al-Jazeera

Skateboarding
Skateboarding is becoming popular in Jordan after the construction of 7Hills Skatepark in Amman

Cycling
Although cycling is not a very famous sport in Jordan, the sport is developing.[citation needed] The governing body of cycling in Jordan is the Jordanian Cycling Federation (JCF).


Jordan at the Olympics:
Jordan first participated at the Olympic Games in 1980, and has sent athletes to compete in every Summer Olympic Games since then. The nation has never participated in the Winter Olympic Games, however at the 1992 Albertville Olympics 43-year-old Mohamed Hadid competed for Jordan in the demonstration sport of speed skiing.[1]

Jordan won its first official ever medal at the Olympic Games at Rio de Janeiro in 2016, when Ahmad Abughaush won gold in the Men's 68 kg tournament in Taekwondo. Jordan won its second official medal at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo with yet another taekwondo achievement as Saleh Al-Sharabaty won a silver medal in the 80 kg category.

Samer Kamal and Ihsan Abu-Sheikha won two bronze medals in Taekwondo at the 1988 Summer Olympics at Seoul, South Korea when Taekwondo was just introduced into the Olympic Games; however, it was introduced only as a demonstration sport and therefore, are not official medals.

The National Olympic Committee for Jordan was created in 1957 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1963.

The Jordan Olympic Committee is now headed by Prince Faisal Bin Al Hussein.

Jordan at the Paralympics:
Jordan first participated at the Paralympic Games in 1984, and has sent athletes to compete in every Summer Paralympic Games since then, with the exception of the 1992 Summer Paralympics. The nation has never participated in the Winter Paralympic Games.

